Release 2022.05.1 (#3338)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/reference/api/myaccount/index.md

> **Note:** This document provides reference material for an enhanced MyAccount API, accessible at `/idp/myaccount`. The `/api/v1/myaccount` endpoint is deprecated. See [MyAccount API (deprecated)](/docs/reference/api/archive-myaccount/) for the docs for the older version of the API.

The Okta MyAccount API allows end users to fetch and update their own Okta user profiles. It implements a subset of the existing [Users API](/docs/reference/api/users/) but with significant differences:

* The API doesn't expose information an end user shouldn't have access to.
* The API doesn't support lifecycle operations.
* All operations in this API implicitly refer to the user making the API call. No user ID is needed or even accepted.

## Get started

Explore the MyAccount API:
> **Note:** To run this Postman collection, you need an end-user access token. Use a password grant type or SDK to get the token. See [Embedded Auth with SDKs React](https://github.com/okta/okta-auth-js/tree/master/test/apps/react-oie) for a sample app that provides an access token.

[![Run in Postman](https://run.pstmn.io/button.svg)](https://app.getpostman.com/run-collection/9cb68745dbf85ae3a871)

> #### API Versioning

Author: ```suggestion
#### API versioning
```

##### Request

```bash
curl -v -X GET \
-H "Authorization: Bearer ${token}" \
"https://${yourOktaDomain}/idp/myaccount/emails/{id}"
```

##### Response

```json
{
    "id": "5a8de6071e1b94e0f4ec664b9e4869e8",
    "status": "VERIFIED",
    "profile": {
        "email": "primary.email@okta.com"
    },
    "roles": [
        "PRIMARY"
    ],
    "_links": {
        "self": {
            "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/idp/myaccount/emails/5a8de6071e1b94e0f4ec664b9e4869e8",
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "GET"
                ]
            }
        },
        "challenge": {
            "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/idp/myaccount/emails/5a8de6071e1b94e0f4ec664b9e4869e8/challenge",
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "POST"
                ]
            }
        }
    }
}
```

### Add My Email

<ApiOperation method="post" url="/idp/myaccount/emails" />

Add a `PRIMARY` or `SECONDARY` email address to the user's account. The new email address is in UNVERIFIED status.

#### Required scope and role

An Okta scope of `okta.myAccount.email.manage` is required to use this endpoint.

> > **Note:** Admin users aren't allowed to call the `/idp/myaccount/emails` POST endpoint.

Author: ```suggestion
> **Note:** Admin users aren't allowed to make a POST request to the `/idp/myaccount/emails` endpoint.
```

> > **Note:** Admin users aren't allowed to call the `/idp/myaccount/emails` POST endpoint.

Author: Correct. It's the nature of the API. It's for non-admin users.

#### Usage example

Any user with a valid bearer token can issue this request to create their email.

##### Request

```bash
curl -v -X POST \
-H "Authorization: Bearer ${token}" \
"https://${yourOktaDomain}/idp/myaccount/emails"
```

##### Response

```json
{
    "id": "5a8de6071e1b94e0f4ec664b9e4869e8",
    "status": "UNVERIFIED",
    "profile": {
        "email": "primary.email@okta.com"
    },
    "roles": [
        "PRIMARY"
    ],
    "_links": {
        "self": {
            "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/idp/myaccount/emails/5a8de6071e1b94e0f4ec664b9e4869e8",
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "GET"
                ]
            }
        },
        "challenge": {
            "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/idp/myaccount/emails/5a8de6071e1b94e0f4ec664b9e4869e8/challenge",
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "POST"
                ]
            }
        }
    }
}
```

### Challenge My Email

<ApiOperation method="post" url="/idp/myaccount/emails/{id}/challenge" />

Sends a challenge to the email, user receives a 'Confirm email address change' email with an one time passcode to verify the email.

> In addition, user also receives a - 'Notice of pending email address change' email. Once challenge verified, the email becomes active.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, the user also receives a "Notice of pending email address change" email. After the challenge is verified, the email becomes active.
```

#### Required scope and role

An Okta scope of `okta.myAccount.email.manage` is required to use this endpoint.

> > **Note:** Admin users aren't allowed to call the `/idp/myaccount/emails/{id}/challenge` POST endpoint.

Reviewer: see my comment above.
```suggestion
> **Note:** Admin users aren't allowed to call the `/idp/myaccount/emails/{id}/challenge` POST endpoint.
```

#### Request path parameters

| Parameter  | Type   | Description                                       |
| ---------- | ------ | ------------------------------------------------- |

> | `id` | String | ID of the email. the ID of the email can be obtained through `GET /idp/myaccount/emails` or `POST /idp/myaccount/emails` when adding a new email address. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `id` | String | ID of the email. Obtain the ID of the email through `GET /idp/myaccount/emails` or `POST /idp/myaccount/emails` when adding a new email address. |
```

#### Request query parameters

N/A

#### Request body

| Property | Type                     | Description                          |
| -------- | -------------------------|--------------------------------------|
| `state` | String | (Optional) The state parameter, the state of the client |

#### Response body

The requested [My Email Challenge Response object](#my-email-challenge-response-object)

#### Error Responses

> If the email operation isn't enabled on the org, the response returns a 403 FORBIDDEN with error code E0000038.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the email operation isn't enabled in the org, the response returns a 403 FORBIDDEN with error code E0000038.
```

> If an invalid emailId is requested for challenge, the response returns a 404 NOT FOUND with error code E0000007.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an invalid `emailId` is requested for challenge, the response returns a 404 NOT FOUND with error code E0000007.
```

##### Request

```bash
curl -v -X POST \
-H "Authorization: Bearer ${token}" \
"https://${yourOktaDomain}/idp/myaccount/emails/{id}/challenge"
```

##### Response

Returns an HTTP 201 status code response.

```json
{
    "id": "myaccount.0Up-umuhQ1adW2EGRAAK1g",
    "status": "UNVERIFIED",
    "expiresAt": "2022-03-04T21:19:43.315Z",
    "profile": {
        "email": "some.primary.email@okta.com"
    },
    "_links": {
        "verify": {
            "href": "https://jay-oie-org1.okta1.com/idp/myaccount/emails/92fc7f9445e413e94e544cc3b30483ce/challenge/myaccount.0Up-umuhQ1adW2EGRAAK1g/verify",
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "POST"
                ]
            }
        },
        "poll": {
            "href": "https://jay-oie-org1.okta1.com/idp/myaccount/emails/92fc7f9445e413e94e544cc3b30483ce/challenge/myaccount.0Up-umuhQ1adW2EGRAAK1g",
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "GET"
                ]
            }
        }
    }
}
```

### Verify My Email

<ApiOperation method="post" url="/idp/myaccount/emails/{id}/challenge/{challengeId}/verify" />

> Verify the email challenge with the verification code that the user receives from the 'Confirm email address change' email. The email is active upon a successful verification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verify the email challenge with the verification code that the user receives from the "Confirm email address change" email. The email is active upon a successful verification.
```

#### Required scope and role

An Okta scope of `okta.myAccount.email.manage` is required to use this endpoint.

> > **Note:** Admin users aren't allowed to call the `/idp/myaccount/emails/{id}/challenge/{challengeId}/verify` POST endpoint.

Reviewer: see my comment above

#### Request path parameters

| Parameter  | Type   | Description                                       |
| ---------- | ------ | ------------------------------------------------- |

> | `id` | String | ID of the email. the ID of the email can be obtained through `GET /idp/myaccount/emails` or `POST /idp/myaccount/emails` when adding a new email address. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `id` | String | ID of the email. Obtain the ID of the email through `GET /idp/myaccount/emails` or `POST /idp/myaccount/emails` when adding a new email address. |
```

> | `challengeId` | String | The challengeId of the email. the challengeId can be obtained through `POST /idp/myaccount/emails/{id}/challenge/` when creating a new challenge. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `challengeId` | String | The `challengeId` of the email. Obtain the `challengeId` through `POST /idp/myaccount/emails/{id}/challenge/` when creating a new challenge. |
```

#### Request query parameters

N/A

#### Request body

This request requires the `verificationCode` property as its request body.

| Property | Type                     | Description                          |
| -------- | -------------------------|--------------------------------------|

> | `verificationCode`  | String | A 6-digit verification code that the user receives from the 'Confirm email address change' email |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `verificationCode`  | String | A 6-digit verification code that the user receives from the "Confirm email address change" email |
```

#### Response body

N/A

#### Error Responses

If the requested `verificationCode` is invalid, the response returns a 401 UNAUTHORIZED with error code E0000004.

> If the email operation isn't enabled on the org, the response returns a 403 FORBIDDEN with error code E0000038.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the email operation isn't enabled in the org, the response returns a 403 FORBIDDEN with error code E0000038.
```

> If an invalid challengeId is requested for verification, the response returns a 404 NOT FOUND with error code E0000007.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an invalid `challengeId` is requested for verification, the response returns a 404 NOT FOUND with error code E0000007.
```

#### Usage example

Any non-admin user with a valid bearer token can issue this request to verify their emails.

##### Request

```bash
curl -v -X POST \
-H "Authorization: Bearer ${token}" \
"https://${yourOktaDomain}/idp/myaccount/emails/{id}/challenge/{challengeId}/verify"
```

##### Response

Returns an empty HTTP 204 status code response.

### Poll My Email Challenge

<ApiOperation method="get" url="/idp/myaccount/emails/{id}/challenge/{challengeId}" />

Fetches the email challenge's status

#### Required scope and role

An Okta scope of `okta.myAccount.email.read` is required to use this endpoint.

#### Request path parameters
| Parameter  | Type   | Description                                       |
| ---------- | ------ | ------------------------------------------------- |

> | `id` | String | ID of the email. the ID of the email can be obtained through `GET /idp/myaccount/emails` or `POST /idp/myaccount/emails` when adding a new email address. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `id` | String | ID of the email. Obtain the ID of the email through `GET /idp/myaccount/emails` or `POST /idp/myaccount/emails` when adding a new email address. |
```

> | `challengeId` | String | The challengeId of the email. the challengeId can be obtained through `POST /idp/myaccount/emails/{id}/challenge/` when creating a new challenge. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `challengeId` | String | The `challengeId` of the email. Obtain the `challengeId` through `POST /idp/myaccount/emails/{id}/challenge/` when creating a new challenge. |
```

#### Request query parameters

N/A

#### Response body

The requested [My Email Challenge object](#my-email-challenge-object)

#### Usage example

Any non-admin user with a valid bearer token can issue this request to get their email challenge status.

##### Request

```bash
curl -v -X GET \
-H "Authorization: Bearer ${token}" \
"https://${yourOktaDomain}/idp/myaccount/emails/{id}/challenge/{challengeId}"
```

##### Response

```json
{
    "id": "myaccount.y-YPC4HiTbGEAeEwmHI2MA",
    "status": "UNVERIFIED",
    "expiresAt": "2022-03-04T17:29:57.067Z",
    "profile": {
        "email": "some.primary.email@okta.com"
    }
}
```

### Delete My Email

<ApiOperation method="delete" url="/idp/myaccount/emails/{id}" />

> Delete the current user's email information by id, only UNVERIFIED primary and secondary emails can be deleted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deletes the current user's email information by ID. You can only delete UNVERIFIED primary and secondary emails.
```

#### Required scope and role

An Okta scope of `okta.myAccount.email.manage` is required to use this endpoint.

> > **Note:** Admin users aren't allowed to call the `/idp/myaccount/emails/{id}/` DELETE endpoint.

Reviewer: see my comment above

#### Request path parameters

| Parameter  | Type   | Description                                       |
| ---------- | ------ | ------------------------------------------------- |
| `id` | String | ID of the email. the ID of the email can be obtained through `GET /idp/myaccount/emails` or `POST /idp/myaccount/emails` when adding a new email address. |

#### Request query parameters

N/A

#### Response body

N/A

#### Error Responses

> If an invalid emailId is requested for deletion, the response returns a 404 NOT FOUND with error code E0000007.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an invalid `emailId` is requested for deletion, the response returns a 404 NOT FOUND with error code E0000007.
```

If the email for deletion is an already verified email, the response returns a 400 BAD REQUEST with error code E0000001.

#### Usage example

Any non-admin user with a valid bearer token can issue this request to delete their UNVERIFIED emails.

##### Request

```bash
curl -v -X DELETE \
-H "Authorization: Bearer ${token}" \
"https://${yourOktaDomain}/idp/myaccount/emails/{id}"
```

##### Response

Returns an empty HTTP 204 status code response.

#### Error Responses

> If an invalid email id is passed to the request, the response returns a 404 NOT FOUND with error code E0000007.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an invalid email ID is passed to the request, the response returns a 404 NOT FOUND with error code E0000007.
```

                    ]
                }
            },
            "challenge": {
                "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/idp/myaccount/phones/sms1bueyI0w0HHwro0g4/challenge",
                "hints": {
                    "allow": [
                        "POST"
                    ]
                }
            }
        }
    },
    {
        "id": "clf1639iP89ovYrhQ0g4",
        "status": "VERIFIED",
        "profile": {
            "phoneNumber": "+15555555556"
        },
        "_links": {
            "self": {
                "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/idp/myaccount/phones/clf1639iP89ovYrhQ0g4",
                "hints": {
                    "allow": [
                        "GET",
                        "DELETE"
                    ]
                }
            },
            "challenge": {
                "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/idp/myaccount/phones/clf1639iP89ovYrhQ0g4/challenge",
                "hints": {
                    "allow": [
                        "POST"
                    ]
                }
            }
        }
    }
]
```

### Get My Phone

<ApiOperation method="get" url="/idp/myaccount/phones/{id}" />

> Fetches the current user's phone information by id, along with a collection of links describing the operations can be performed to the phone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fetches the current user's phone information by ID, along with a collection of links describing the operations that can be performed to the phone.
```

#### Required scope and role

An Okta scope of `okta.myAccount.phone.read` or `okta.myAccount.phone.manage` is required to use this endpoint.

#### Request path parameters

| Parameter  | Type   | Description                                       |
| ---------- | ------ | ------------------------------------------------- |

> | `id` | String | ID of the phone. The ID of the phone can be obtained through `GET /idp/myaccount/phones` or `POST /idp/myaccount/phones` when adding a new phone. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `id` | String | ID of the phone. Obtain the ID of the phone through `GET /idp/myaccount/phones` or `POST /idp/myaccount/phones` when adding a new phone. |
```

#### Request query parameters

N/A

#### Response body

The requested [My Phone object](#my-phone-object)

#### Usage example

Any user with a valid bearer token can issue this request to get their phone.

##### Request

```bash
curl -v -X GET \
-H "Authorization: Bearer ${token}" \
"https://${yourOktaDomain}/idp/myaccount/phones/{id}"
```

##### Response

```json
{
    "id": "sms1bueyI0w0HHwro0g4",
    "status": "UNVERIFIED",
    "profile": {
        "phoneNumber": "+15555555555"
    },
    "_links": {
        "self": {
            "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/idp/myaccount/phones/sms1bueyI0w0HHwro0g4",
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "GET",
                    "DELETE"
                ]
            }
        },
        "challenge": {
            "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/idp/myaccount/phones/sms1bueyI0w0HHwro0g4/challenge",
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "POST"
                ]
            }
        }
    }
}
```

### Add My Phone

<ApiOperation method="post" url="/idp/myaccount/phones" />

> Create an UNVERIFIED status phone for either `SMS` or `CALL` method to user's MyAccount setting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creates an UNVERIFIED status phone for either the `SMS` or `CALL` method to the user's MyAccount setting
```

#### Required scope and role

An Okta scope of `okta.myAccount.phone.manage` is required to use this endpoint.

> > **Note:** Admin users aren't allowed to call the `/idp/myaccount/phones` POST endpoint.

Reviewer: see my comment above

#### Response body

The requested [My Phone object](#my-phone-object)

#### Error Responses

If an invalid phone number is passed to `profile` in the request body, the response returns a 400 BAD REQUEST with error code E0000001.

If an invalid `method` is passed in the request body, the response returns a 400 BAD REQUEST with error code E0000001.

If the phone authenticator isn't enabled for `method` on the org, the response returns a 403 FORBIDDEN with error code E0000038.

<!-- If the number of phone factors for the current user already reaches the maximum allowed per user or the phone factor is failed to create, the response returns a 500 INTERNAL SERVER ERROR with error code E0000009.
-->
If the phone number already exists for the current user, the response returns a 409 CONFLICT with error code E0000157.

If the call providers fails to send challenge when `sendCode` is true,  the response returns 500 with error code E0000138.

#### Usage example

Any user with a valid bearer token can issue this request to create their phone.

##### Request

```bash
curl -v -X POST \
-H "Authorization: Bearer ${token}" \
"https://${yourOktaDomain}/idp/myaccount/phones"
```

##### Response

> Returns an HTTP 201 status code response, with a location URL referring to the newly created phone in the response header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns an HTTP 201 status code response with a location URL that refers to the newly created phone in the response header.
```

            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "GET",
                    "DELETE"
                ]
            }
        },
        "challenge": {
            "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/idp/myaccount/phones/sms1bueyI0w0HHwro0g4/challenge",
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "POST"
                ]
            }
        },
        "verify": {
            "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/idp/myaccount/phones/sms1bueyI0w0HHwro0g4/challenge",
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "POST"
                ]
            }
        }
    }
}
```

### Challenge My Phone

<ApiOperation method="post" url="/idp/myaccount/phones/{id}/challenge"/>

Sends a phone challenge using one of two methods: `SMS` or `CALL`. This request can also handle a resend challenge (retry).

Upon a successful challenge, the user receives a verification code by `SMS` or `CALL`. Send a `POST` request to the `/idp/myaccount/phones/{id}/verify` endpoint to use the verification code to verify the phone number. The verification code expires in 5 minutes.

> > **Note:** Sending requests to the `/idp/myaccount/phones/{id}/challenge` endpoint more often than once very 30 seconds, or at a rate that exceeds the rate limit rule configured by the admin, returns a 429 (Too Many Requests) error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** Sending requests to the `/idp/myaccount/phones/{id}/challenge` endpoint more often than once every 30 seconds, or at a rate that exceeds the rate limit rule configured by the admin, returns a 429 (Too Many Requests) error.
```

#### Required scope and role

An Okta scope of `okta.myAccount.phone.manage` is required to use this endpoint.

> > **Note:** Admin users aren't allowed to call the `/idp/myaccount/phones/{id}/challenge` endpoint.

Reviewer: see my comment above

#### Request path parameters

| Parameter  | Type   | Description                                       |
| ---------- | ------ | ------------------------------------------------- |

> | `id` | String | The id of the phone factor. Found in the response when a new phone number is created successfully (`POST /idp/myaccount/phones`) or phone(s) is retrieved (`GET /idp/myaccount/phones`)  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `id` | String | The ID of the phone factor. Found in the response when a new phone number is created successfully (`POST /idp/myaccount/phones`) or phone(s) is retrieved (`GET /idp/myaccount/phones`)  |
```

#### Request query parameters

N/A

#### Request body

> This request requires the `method` property as its request body. An optional boolean `retry` property can be used to indicate resend challenge when its value is set to `true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This request requires the `method` property as its request body. You can use an optional boolean `retry` property to indicate a resend challenge when its value is set to `true`.
```

| Property | Type                     | Description                          |
| -------- | -------------------------|--------------------------------------|

> | `method`  | String | The method with which the challenge should be sent, valid values are `SMS` and `CALL` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `method`  | String | The method with which the challenge should be sent. Valid values: `SMS` and `CALL` |
```

| `retry`  | Boolean | An optional property that indicates whether this is a normal challenge or retry |

#### Response body

> Returns a JSON object containing a link to verify the challenged phone, with an HTTP 200 status code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns a JSON object that contains a link to verify the challenged phone with an HTTP 200 status code.
```

Passing an invalid `method` returns a 400 BAD REQUEST with error code E0000001.

Disabling the factor type of the corresponding method on the org returns a 403 FORBIDDEN with error code E0000038.

Passing an invalid `id` returns a 404 NOT FOUND with error code E0000008.

Call providers failing to send the out of band OTP challenge returns 500 with error code E0000138.

#### Usage example

##### Request

This request sends a verification code by SMS to the phone number represented by `id`. The request is a normal phone challenge, not a retry.

```bash
curl -XPOST 'https://${yourOktaDomain}/myaccount/phones/{id}/challenge' -H 'Authorization: bearer {token}' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' --data '{
     "method": "SMS",
     "retry": false
 }'
```

##### Response

Returns an HTTP 200 status code response.

```bash
{
    "_links": {
        "verify": {
            "href": 'http://${yourOktaDomain}/idp/myaccount/phones/smsa7gpDMs5V6C0LT0g4/verify',
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "POST"
                ]
            }
        }
    }
}
```

### Verify My Phone

<ApiOperation method="post" url="/idp/myaccount/phones/{id}/verify"/>

> Verify the phone number with the verification code that the user receives via `SMS` or `CALL`. The phone number is active upon a successful verification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verify the phone number with the verification code that the user receives through `SMS` or `CALL`. The phone number is active upon a successful verification.
```

> **Note:** Sending requests to the `/idp/myaccount/phones/{id}/verify` endpoint at a rate that exceeds the rate limit rule configured by the admin, returns a 429 (Too Many Requests) error.

#### Required scope and role

An Okta scope of `okta.myAccount.phone.manage` is required to use this endpoint.

> > **Note:** Admin users aren't allowed to call the `/idp/myaccount/phones/{id}/verify` endpoint.

Reviewer: see my comment above

#### Request path parameters

| Parameter  | Type   | Description                                       |
| ---------- | ------ | ------------------------------------------------- |
| `id` | String | The id of the phone factor. Found in the response when a new phone number is created successfully (`POST /idp/myaccount/phones`) or phone(s) is retrieved (`GET /idp/myaccount/phones`)  |

#### Request query parameters

N/A

#### Request body

This request requires the `verificationCode` property as its request body.

| Property | Type                     | Description                          |
| -------- | -------------------------|--------------------------------------|

> | `verificationCode`  | String | A 6-digit verification code that the user receives via `SMS` or `CALL` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `verificationCode`  | String | A 6-digit verification code that the user receives through `SMS` or `CALL` |
```

#### Response body

Returns an empty response with an HTTP 204 status code.

Disabling the factor type of the corresponding method on the org returns a 403 FORBIDDEN with error code E0000038.

> Disabling the `IDP_MY_ACCOUNT_API` feature flag on the org returns a 401 UNAUTHORIZED with error code E0000015.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Disabling the `IDP_MY_ACCOUNT_API` feature flag in the org returns a 401 UNAUTHORIZED with error code E0000015.
```

Passing an invalid `id` returns a 404 NOT FOUND with error code E0000008.

Passing an invalid `verificationCode` returns a 400 BAD REQUEST with error code E0000001.

> Passing a valid `verificationCode` again (verifying a phone number that has been verified) results a no-op.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Passing a valid `verificationCode` again (verifying a phone number that has been verified) results in a no-op.
```

In an extremely rare case, verifying a phone number when the challenge is about to expire returns a 409 CONFLICT with error code E0000157.

Failing to answer the challenge (possibly due to invalid `verificationCode`) returns a 401 UNAUTHORIZED with error code E0000004.

#### Usage example

##### Request

The following request verifies the phone number represented by `id` with a `verificationCode` of 796672.

```bash
curl -XPOST 'https://${yourOktaDomain}/myaccount/phones/{id}/verify' -H 'Authorization: bearer {token}' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' --data '{
     "verificationCode": "796672"
 }'
```

### Delete My Phone

<ApiOperation method="delete" url="/idp/myaccount/phones/{id}" />

Delete the current user's phone information by id.

#### Required scope and role

An Okta scope of `okta.myAccount.phone.manage` is required to use this endpoint.

> > **Note:** Admin users aren't allowed to call the `/idp/myaccount/phones/{id}/` DELETE endpoint.

Reviewer: see my comment above

| ---------- | ------ | ------------------------------------------------- |
| `id` | String | ID of the phone. The ID of the phone can be obtained through `GET /idp/myaccount/phones` or `POST /idp/myaccount/phones` when adding a new phone. |

#### Request query parameters

N/A

#### Response body

N/A

#### Usage example

Any non-admin user with a valid bearer token can issue this request to delete their phone.

##### Request

```bash
curl -v -X DELETE \
-H "Authorization: Bearer ${token}" \
"https://${yourOktaDomain}/idp/myaccount/phones/{id}"
```

##### Response

Returns an empty HTTP 204 status code response.

#### Error Responses

If the phone authenticator isn't enabled for `method` on the org, the response returns a 403 FORBIDDEN with error code E0000038.

If an invalid phone id is passed to the request, the response returns a 404 NOT FOUND with error code E0000008.

### Get My User Profile Schema

| Endpoint | Lifecycle Status |
|---|---|
| <ApiOperation method="get" url="/idp/myaccount/profile/schema" /> | <ApiLifecycle access="ea" /> |
| <ApiOperation method="get" url="/api/v1/myaccount/profile/schema" /> | <ApiLifecycle access="deprecated" /> |

> Fetches the appropriate User Profile Schema for the caller's [User Type](/docs/reference/api/user-types/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fetches the appropriate User Profile Schema for the caller's [User Type](/docs/reference/api/user-types/)
```

}
```

### Update My User Profile

| Endpoint | Lifecycle Status |
|---|---|
| <ApiOperation method="put" url="/idp/myaccount/profile" /> | <ApiLifecycle access="ea" /> |
| <ApiOperation method="put" url="/api/v1/myaccount/directoryProfile" /> | <ApiLifecycle access="deprecated" /> |

Updates the caller's User Profile.

> > **Note:** This API differs from the the existing [Users API](/docs/reference/api/users/) in that only PUT is supported.  This API also doesn't support partial update (PATCH request).  All values returned from fetching User Profile must be passed to this API, or the update doesn't pass validation.  This applies even if the omitted schema property is optional. To unset an optional property, explicitly pass the property with a value of `null`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** This API differs from the the existing [Users API](/docs/reference/api/users/) in that only PUT is supported.  This API also doesn't support partial update (PATCH request). All values returned from fetching User Profile must be passed to this API, or the update doesn't pass validation. This applies even if the omitted schema property is optional. To unset an optional property, explicitly pass the property with a value of `null`.
```

}
```

## MyAccount API objects

### My Email object

#### My Email properties

| Property           | Type                                                            | Description                                                                                                       |
| ------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| `id`               | String                                                            | The caller's email ID|
| `status`           | String                                                            | The caller's email status, VERIFIED, OR UNVERIFIED|
| `roles`            | Object                                                            | The roles object defines the role of the email, PRIMARY or SECONDARY|

> | `profile`          | Object                                                            | The profile object defines the email address on the profile.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `profile`          | Object                                                            | The Profile object defines the email address on the profile.|
```

        "email": "some.primary.email@okta.com"
    },
    "roles": [
        "PRIMARY"
    ],
    "_links": {
        "self": {
            "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/idp/myaccount/emails/5a8de6071e1b94e0f4ec664b9e4869e8",
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "GET"
                ]
            }
        },
        "challenge": {
            "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/idp/myaccount/emails/5a8de6071e1b94e0f4ec664b9e4869e8/challenge",
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "POST"
                ]
            }
        }
    }
}
```

### My Email Request object

#### My Email Request properties

| Property           | Type                                                            | Description                                                                                                       |
| ------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| `profile`          | Object                                                            | The profile object defines the email address on the profile.|

> | `role`            | Object                                                            | The roles object defines the role of the email, PRIMARY or SECONDARY|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `role`            | Object                                                            | The Roles object defines the role of the email, PRIMARY or SECONDARY|
```

| `profile`          | Object                                                            | The profile object defines the email address on the profile.|

#### My Email Challenge example

```json
{
    "id": "myaccount.6FLx1qb0Q8KNZSsgS150fA",
    "status": "UNVERIFIED",
    "expiresAt": "2022-03-04T17:19:03.451Z",
    "profile": {
        "email": "some.primary.email@okta.com"
    }
}
```

### My Email Challenge Response object

#### My Email Challenge Response properties

| Property           | Type                                                            | Description                                                                                                       |
| ------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| `id`               | String                                                            | The caller's email ID|
| `status`           | Object                                                            | The caller's email challenge status, VERIFIED, OR UNVERIFIED|

> | `expiresAt`        | String (ISO-8601)                                                 | The time this challenge expires, the time to live of a challenge is 5 minutes|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `expiresAt`        | String (ISO-8601)                                                 | The time this challenge expires. The lifetime of a challenge is five minutes.|
```

            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "POST"
                ]
            }
        },
        "poll": {
            "href": "https://jay-oie-org1.okta1.com/idp/myaccount/emails/92fc7f9445e413e94e544cc3b30483ce/challenge/myaccount.0Up-umuhQ1adW2EGRAAK1g",
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "GET"
                ]
            }
        }
    }
}
```

### My Phone object

#### My Phone properties

| Property           | Type                                                            | Description                                                                                                       |
| ------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| `id`               | String                                                          | The caller's phone ID|
| `status`           | String                                                          | The caller's phone status, VERIFIED, OR UNVERIFIED|

> | `profile`          | Object                                                          | The profile object defines the phone number on the profile.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `profile`          | Object                                                          | The Profile object defines the phone number on the profile.|
```

    },
    "_links": {
        "self": {
            "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/idp/myaccount/phones/sms1bueyI0w0HHwro0g4",
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "GET",
                    "DELETE"
                ]
            }
        },
        "challenge": {
            "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/idp/myaccount/phones/sms1bueyI0w0HHwro0g4/challenge",
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "POST"
                ]
            }
        },
        "verify": {
            "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/idp/myaccount/phones/sms1bueyI0w0HHwro0g4/challenge",
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "POST"
                ]
            }
        }
    }
}
```

### My Phone Request object

#### My Phone Request properties

| Property           | Type                                                            | Description                                                                                                       |
| ------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |

> | `profile`          | Object                                                            | The profile object defines the phone number on the profile.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `profile`          | Object                                                            | The Profile object defines the phone number on the profile.|
```

> | `sendCode`         | Boolean                                                           | Whether to send challenge to the newly added phone, the default is true.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `sendCode`         | Boolean                                                           | Whether to send a challenge to the newly added phone. The default is `true`.|
```
